smp_wmb是为了刷新store buffer，可以确保前后的写顺序，否则后面的写入可能因为cache hit直接体现在cache中，前面的反而因为cache miss缓存在sotre buffer中，导致其他CPU看到的写入顺序和实际编程的顺序不一致。
smp_rmb是为了刷新invalidate queue，本质是为了确保其他CPU的写入正确的反映到当前CPU，这样本地CPU看到的内容才是正确的值，invalidate queue的存在，会导致本地cache中本应被清楚的数据在其他CPU写入后依然存在（脏数据）。通过smp_rmb可以刷新掉这部分数据，重新读入。其他CPU后写入的数据，因为本地不存在cache，直接读取到了最新的修改，而之前的写入数据，由于本地cache的存在，invalide消息缓存在invalidate queue中，这样本地CPU看到的还是老的数据，通过smp_rmb可以刷新invalidate queue，确保可以看到两次刷新之后的最新结果。

control dependency
data dependency
multicopy atomicity


Sequential consistency(SC)
Total store ordering (TSO)
A popular memory model that allows store buffering is called total store ordering (TSO). TSO mostly preserves the same guarantees as SC, except that it allows the use of store buffers. These buffers hide write latency, making execution significantly faster.
relaxed consistency model(XC)
release consistency (RC)


A memory consistency model, or, more simply, a memory model, is a specification of the allowed behavior of multithreaded programs executing with shared memory.
For a multithreaded program executing with specific input data, it specifies what values dynamic loads may return.
Unlike a single-threaded execution, multiple correct behaviors are usually allowed.

In general, a memory consistency model MC gives rules that partition executions into those obeying MC (MC executions) and those disobeying MC (non-MC executions).
This partitioning of executions, in turn, partitions implementations. An MC implementation is a system that permits only MC executions, while a non-MC implementation sometimes permits non-MC executions.


We denote memory order using the operator <m, so op1 <m op2 implies that op1 precedes op2 in memory order. Similarly, we use the operator <p to denote program order for a given core, so op1 <p op2 implies that op1 precedes op2 in that core’s program order.


Recall that in Section 2.3 we discussed two classes of coherence interfaces: consistencyagnostic and consistency-directed. A consistency-agnostic coherence interface enforces SWMR by propagating writes to other threads synchronously before the write returns. Given the cost of enforcing SWMR in the GPU setting, can we explore consistency-directed coherence? That is, instead of making writes visible to other threads synchronously, can we make them visible asynchronously without violating consistency? Specifically, a relaxed consistency model such as Chapter 5’s XC7 mandates only the memory orderings indicated by the programmer via FENCE instructions. Such a model allows for writes to propagate to other threads asynchronously. 
