AB: Aggregated bandwidth
ACL: access control lists
Android.Google testing: Google tests train in the Google GPSU Testing Lab, on Pixel devices and partner-provided devices
Android.GPSU: Google Play system updates. End-user facing name for Mainline updates (i.e., as seen in customer UX). GPSUs use modular system components (modules) to update Android devices outside of the normal Android release cycle via an over-the-air (OTA) mechanism.
Android.Module qualification: When developer teams “nominate” their modules to join a train, each module is tested on its own. When a module passes those tests, they advance to train qualification.
Android.Modules: OS components (e.g., Documents UI, media).
Android.Partner testing: Google shares the release candidate train with OEMs, who can perform their own internal testing.
Android.Release stages: Steps a train goes through before it lands on all devices.
Android.Train qualification: Where multiple modules are tested together, which includes more extensive testing, such as integration tests and OEM-device testing.
Android.Trains: Set of modules that are updated at the same time (atomically).
AVC: Access Vector Cache
BIMC: Bus-integrated memory controller
DAC: discretionary access control
DCVS: Differential cascodevoltage switch
DDR: Double data rate
EBI: External Bus Interface
EEPROM: electrically erasable programmable read-only memory
IB: Instantaneousbandwidth
INTEL.address size prefix:
INTEL.Canonical Addressing: In 64-bit mode, an address is considered to be in canonical form if address bits 63 through to the most-significant implemented bit by the microarchitecture are set to either all ones or all zeros. Intel 64 architecture defines a 64-bit linear address. Implementations can support less. The first implementation of IA-32 processors with Intel 64 architecture supports a 48-bit linear address. This means a canonical address must have bits 63 through 48 set to zeros or ones (depending on whether bit 47 is a zero or one).
INTEL.CLTS: Clear Task-Switched Flag
INTEL.CR0.PG: paging
INTEL.CR3:
INTEL.EPT: EXTENDED PAGE TABLE MECHANISM
INTEL.ICR: interrupt command register
INTEL.LMSW: Load Machine Status Word
INTEL.MCE: 
INTEL.MTF: Monitor Trap Flag
INTEL.PCID: Process-Context Identifiers
INTEL.SMI: system management interrupt
INTEL.SMM: system management mode
INTEL.STI: Set Interrupt Flag
INTEL.store buffer: 当cache不存在的时候直接缓存store指令，不用等待cache load
INTEL.VMX.interrupt-window exiting: guest允许中断，意味着一个可中断窗口的开启，这个时候切换到host状态允许host把之前pending的virtual interrupt投递给guest
INTEL.VMX.NMI-window exiting: If the “virtual NMIs” VM-execution is set, the processor tracks virtual-NMI blocking. The “NMI-window exiting” VM-execution control (Section 24.6.2) causes VM exits when there is no virtual-NMI blocking.
INTEL.VPID: VIRTUAL PROCESSOR IDENTIFIERS
INTEL.WB: Write Back
INTEL.WC: Write Combining
INTEL.WP: Write Protected
INTEL.WT: Write Through
Linux.OPP: DVFS operating point; The majority of modern processors are capable of operating in a number of different clock frequency and voltage configurations, often referred to as Operating Performance Points or P-states (in ACPI terminology).
Linux.PELT: Per-Entity Load Tracking
LLCC: last level cache controller
MAC: mandatory access control
MISC.(non)blind CAS: blind CAS不需要获取memory中的原始值，nonblind CAS需要首先读取memory中的原始值作为old value。获取spin_lock时调用CAS需要指定old value为0，new value为1，这就是一个典型的blind CAS。
MLS: multilevel security
NPU: Network processing unit
PCL: Performance Counters for Linux
PM.QoS: Power Manager Quality of Service
Qualcomm.aDSP: is the Application DSP, which allows the device to process simple sets of data on low power, without having to wake up the Application processor (AP). The aDSP can run custom applications to perform simple tasks, like hotword detection for voice recognition, sensor data aggregation from accelerometer, gyroscope etc. and is also utilized for low power music playback nowadays.
Qualcomm.APO: always-on processor
Qualcomm.BIMC: Bus integrated memory controller
Qualcomm.cDSP: compute
Qualcomm.mDSP: is the Modem DSP, which allows the modem to outsource processing.
Qualcomm.PMU: instructions per L2 miss?
Qualcomm.RPM: Resource Power Manager
Qualcomm.sDSP: sensor
swapping/paging: The kernel enables seldom-used parts of memory to be swapped out to block devices, effectively providing more main memory.
Android.AVB:  Android Verified Boot
Android.TEE:  Trusted Execution Environment
INTEL.MTF: Monitor Trap Flag
INTEL.PT: Processor Trace
